hey I'm Lea D'Amelio with Mahalo daily
thanks to artists like Shakira we've
learned that hips don't lie so today
we're bringing you the truth on belly
dancing Jelena is no stranger in the
world of belly dancing in fact she is
known across the world and has traveled
throughout Europe Japan Argentina Brazil
Canada and Egypt performing teaching and
learning in addition to being a master
teacher Jelena is the founder and
director of the award-winning Salalah
dancers and has won various awards
including dancer of the Year and Best
Dance Company today Jelena is going to
tell us more about the history and art
of belly dancing and teach us a few
moves to try out at home so first of all
just tell me a little bit about the
history of belly dance and how it made
its way into Western culture especially
here in the US and it's really popular
particularly outside the Middle East
which is interesting well there's a lot
of different stories of where belly
dancing came from and I believe that
there's a little bit of truth to all of
those stories but one of the main
stories is that the gypsies brought it
down through India and travel through
the Middle East and as gypsies do you
know captivating the essence of each
culture and people which created a dance
style
what characterizes belly dancing I mean
it obviously in the name it's a lot of
stomach movement but what is the sort of
dominant body part that is used or just
the movement that really says okay that
is from belly dancing right well there's
a lot of crossover movements through
other styles of dance but when I think
the key elements of belly dance is the
isolation so whether you're isolating
your head or your arms or just your
hands your chest the stomach of course
belly dance the hips or the shimmies but
probably the most common movements would
be what we call the camel or call the
undulation okay or the shins
now you said you work with a lot of
dance troupes now tonight we're gonna
see a rehearsal with one of your groups
the solid Ella dancers solid answers yes
and we've been together a little over 10
years and it's I'm really proud of my
company we started with just a few girls
and we've grown into a company of 13
dancers and we're a local LA based dance
company that we've performed mostly in
the LA area we do some traveling and
tonight is a little special because
we're we're preparing for a clip that
we're gonna do for Dancing with the
Stars which is really exciting and it's
a huge you know thrilled to be a part of
something so big and so mainstream and
that's really important for me as not
just a performer but as an educator to
educate people that this is a respected
art form on the same level as you know
ballroom and ballet and hip-hop and all
the other art forms all right now how
about this do you have to have a dance
background to get into belly dancing one
of the things I think that belly dance
has become so popular because its first
of all too low impact type of dance so
people can get into it later in age it's
also popular for teenagers because
Shakira videos things like that so you
have a really wide range age of students
and I think that's interesting it
appeals to a lot of people you don't
have to have a dance background I think
so natural ability definitely helps and
you know it just depends on what how it
makes you feel so I think people should
definitely give it a try and see how it
feels
all right and that's what we're gonna do
right now so let's start with a basic
move we call this the hip drop so you're
gonna put all your weight on the right
okay and you're gonna push from the ball
your foot on your left the right arm is
up and the left hand is extended out you
have your palm out hmm so you're gonna
go lift the hip release the hip up and
then release on the second one kick and
point the toe okay that's it up down up
keep going and really think about using
your obliques to lift the hip up and
this is a small kick it just comes off
the floor there you go so we're gonna
start with the chest lift okay push it
out push the lower belly out and suck it
in lift push push you already have a
natural ability so it just feels it
feels kind of good right
well Julian I thank you so much though
they're definitely the boobs I'm gonna
work on thank you and all those viewers
at home try those moves out and it's a
great workout and it's a lot of fun I
feel feel really good right now having
been so good and you know I said that
some people it's nice to have a little
bit of that natural ability and I had
actually you do have that thank well
it's time to get to rehearsal yeah let's
go check you over there we're gonna try
a bunch of new and exciting things
for more information go to Mahalo comm
slash how to belly dance
you